<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
    Copyright (c) 2023 IBM Corporation.
    All rights reserved. This program and the accompanying materials
    are made available under the terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0
    which accompanies this distribution, and is available at
    https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/
    
    SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
   
    Contributors:
        IBM Corporation - initial implementation
 -->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd" >
<reference id="ref_inspections_find_strings" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Find Strings</title>
	<shortdesc>Find strings which match a regular expression.
	</shortdesc>
	<prolog>
		<copyright>
			<copyryear year=""></copyryear>
			<copyrholder>
				Copyright (c) 2023 IBM Corporation.
			    All rights reserved. This program and the accompanying materials
			    are made available under the terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0
			    which accompanies this distribution, and is available at
			    https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/
			</copyrholder>
		</copyright>
	</prolog>
	
	<refbody>
		<section>
			<title>Motivation</title>
			Sometimes it is useful to see find strings which match a regular expression.
			For example, to see where there is a string which matches a desired file name.
			There may then be references to that string by objects of interest.
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Arguments</title>
			<simpletable>
				<sthead>
					<stentry>Argument</stentry>
					<stentry>Description</stentry>
				</sthead>
				<strow>
					<stentry>objects</stentry>
					<stentry>Optionally limit the search to Strings in this object set.
					Note that this query does not have to operate on Strings; it will operate on an object
					which for which Eclipse Memory Analyzer can resolve a class specific name, for example
					StringBuilder, Integer, URL, etc.
					</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>pattern</stentry>
					<stentry>A regular expression defining which strings match and should be returned by this query.</stentry>
				</strow>
			</simpletable>
		</section>
		<section id="result">
			<title>Result</title>
			<p>A table showing the strings that match the regular expression.
			</p>
		</section>
	</refbody>
</reference>
