<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
    Copyright (c) 2023 IBM Corporation.
    All rights reserved. This program and the accompanying materials
    are made available under the terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0
    which accompanies this distribution, and is available at
    https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/
    
    SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
   
    Contributors:
        IBM Corporation - initial implementation
 -->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd" >
<reference id="ref_inspections_reference_stats" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Reference Leak</title>
	<shortdesc>Find infomration about and possible incorrect uses of soft, weak or phantom references.
	</shortdesc>
	<prolog>
		<copyright>
			<copyryear year=""></copyryear>
			<copyrholder>
				Copyright (c) 2023 IBM Corporation.
			    All rights reserved. This program and the accompanying materials
			    are made available under the terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0
			    which accompanies this distribution, and is available at
			    https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/
			</copyrholder>
		</copyright>
	</prolog>
	<refbody>
		<section>
			<title>Motivation</title>
			<p>Soft references <codeph>java.lang.ref.SoftReference</codeph>,
			weak references <codeph>java.lang.ref.WeakReference</codeph> and
			Phantom references <codeph>java.lang.ref.PhantomReference</codeph> are used
			to keep references to objects which can be cleared by garbage collection
			if there are no other strong references.</p>
			<p>Soft references can be used for object caching, so that
			an object can usually be retained for fast access, but if
			memory is tight then garbage collection can break the link and free the
			object. Next time it is needed then the application program can
			regenerate the object.</p>
			<p>Weak references can be used in a weak hash map <codeph>java.util.WeakHashMap</codeph> to hold information associated with
			another object, but if that object is no longer available
			then the associated information can be freed too.</p>
			<p>Sometimes an error in the application program can mean that
			the object which is supposed to be softly or weakly referenced is 
			also strongly retained by the reference object. For example the
			key of a weak hash map is weakly retained, but if there is a strong
			reference to it from the value of the weak hash map entry then the
			object will never be freed.</p>
			<p>Phantom references are used to trigger an event when 
			an object is garbage collected.
			The object itself cannot be obtained from the PhantomReference.</p>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Operation</title>
			<p>This query performs the following steps:
			<ol>
			<li>For each reference object supplied to the query, 
			find the object referred to by the reference object via the
			reference field, and return those objects as a histogram.</li>
			<li>For each reference object supplied to the query,
			find all the objects only retained by those reference objects via the
			reference field, and return those objects as a histogram.</li>
			<li>Find all the objects strongly retained by these reference objects,
			and then find all the referenced objects in the first step which are in this set,
			and returned those objects as a histogram. This might indicate a possible
			reference leak, as for example normally a Weak Hash Map should not have a
			reference from the value to the key as that would stop the entry from being freed
			when the reference was no longer accessible.</li>
			</ol>
			</p>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Arguments</title>
			<simpletable>
				<sthead>
					<stentry>Argument</stentry>
					<stentry>Description</stentry>
				</sthead>
				<strow>
					<stentry>objects</stentry>
					<stentry>Reference objects for which the reference statistics query should be run.</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry><parmname>-referent_attribute</parmname></stentry>
					<stentry>The referent field name for the reference objects.
					The default is <codeph>referent</codeph></stentry>
				</strow>
			</simpletable>
		</section>
		<section id="result">
			<title>Result</title>
		</section>
	</refbody>
</reference>
