<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
    Copyright (c) 2008, 2012 SAP AG and others.
    All rights reserved. This program and the accompanying materials
    are made available under the terms of the Eclipse Public License v1.0
    which accompanies this distribution, and is available at
    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html
   
    Contributors:
        SAP AG - initial API and implementation
 -->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd" >
<reference id="ref_findingmemoryleak" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Finding Memory Leak</title>
	<shortdesc />

	<prolog>
		<copyright>
			<copyryear year=""></copyryear>
			<copyrholder>
				Copyright (c) 2008, 2010 SAP AG and others.
			    All rights reserved. This program and the accompanying materials
			    are made available under the terms of the Eclipse Public License v1.0
			    which accompanies this distribution, and is available at
			    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html
			</copyrholder>
		</copyright>
	</prolog>


	<refbody>
		<section>
			<p>
				The following 4-step approach proved to be most
				efficient to detect memory issues:
			</p>
			<ol>
				<li>
					Get an overview of the heap dump. See:
					<i>Overview</i>
				</li>
				<li>
					Find big memory chunks (single objects or groups of
					objects).
				</li>
				<li>Inspect the content of this memory chunk.</li>
				<li>
					If the content of the memory chunk is too big check
					who keeps this memory chunk alive
				</li>
			</ol>
			<p>
				This sequence of actions is automated in Memory Analyzer by the <xref href="../tasks/runningleaksuspectreport.dita">Leak Suspects Report</xref>.
			</p>
			<p>
				The following table contains a list of queries that are
				most helpful in analyzing memory leak issues.
			</p>
			<simpletable relcolwidth="2* 3*" id="findingmemoryleak">
				<strow>
					<stentry>Dominator Tree</stentry>
					<stentry>
						In Dominator Tree every node is responsible for
						keeping its children alive. The tree is sorted
						by the retained size, so you find single big
						objects easily. When there is no single object
						responsible for big memory consumption it is
						helpful to group the result by class and class
						loader to reveal big memory chunks.
					</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>Top Consumers</stentry>
					<stentry>
						Top Consumers query returns information about
						the biggest objects grouped by class, class
						loader, and package.
					</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
					<stentry>Paths to GC Roots</stentry>
					<stentry>
						Paths to GC Roots query helps to identify who is
						responsible for keeping a single object in the
						heap. It is reasonably to run this query on a
						possible suspect (memory accumulation point),
						which you can find e.g. using Big Drops in
						Dominator Tree Query (see
						<i>Big Drop</i>
						entry further down for more details).
					</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
				    <stentry>Duplicate Classes</stentry>
					<stentry>
						Lists classes loaded multiple times. Grouping the result by class loader points to the class loaders that load the same class multiple times. Possible cause: Several versions of the same library are deployed.
					</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
				    <stentry>Big Drops in Dominator Tree Query</stentry>
					<stentry>
						Displays memory accumulation points in the dominator tree. Displayed are objects with a big difference between the retained size of the parent and the children and the first "interesting" dominator of the accumulation point. These are places where the memory of many small objects is accumulated under one object. 
					</stentry>
				</strow>
				<strow>
				    <stentry>Leak Suspects Report</stentry>
					<stentry>
						The Leak Suspects query analyzes the heap dump, searches for memory leak and provides an illustrative description of the identified suspects. 
					</stentry>
				</strow>
			</simpletable>
		</section>
	</refbody>
</reference>