<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
    Copyright (c) 2018 IBM Corporation.
    All rights reserved. This program and the accompanying materials
    are made available under the terms of the Eclipse Public License v1.0
    which accompanies this distribution, and is available at
    http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html
   
    Contributors:
        Andrew Johnson/IBM Corportation - initial API and implementation
 -->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd" >
<task id="task_exportdump" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Export Heap Dump</title>
	<prolog>
		<copyright>
			<copyryear year=""></copyryear>
			<copyrholder>
				Copyright (c) 2018 IBM Corporation.
				All rights reserved. This program and the accompanying materials
				are made available under the terms of the Eclipse Public License v1.0
				which accompanies this distribution, and is available at
				http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html
			</copyrholder>
		</copyright>
	</prolog>

	<taskbody>
		<context>
			<p>A whole snapshot can be exported as a new HPROF format file by
				using
				the 'Export Snapshot' query.
				This query can be used to convert a DTFJ core dump to HPROF format, or to redact sensitive data,
				or to obfuscate class and method names in a dump.
			</p>
			<ul>
				<li>
					Choose the
					<parmname>output</parmname>
					file name, extension '.hprof'.
				</li>
				<li>
					The
					<parmname>compress</parmname>
					option allows the HPROF file to be compressed using the Gzip
					format. The file should be given an extension of <filepath>.hprof.gz</filepath>.
					The HPROF file will take up less disk space, but will take longer to read
					when parsed in Memory Analyzer.
				</li>
				<li>
					If required then certain data can be redacted from the output file,
					to reduce the risk of passwords or other sensitive data being read
					by
					anyone analyzing the newly generated HPROF file. The
					<parmname>redact</parmname>
					option has
					several choices:
					<dl>
						<dlentry>
							<dt>NONE
							</dt>
							<dd>No redaction - all data is available in the new HPROF file.
							</dd>
						</dlentry>
						<dlentry>
							<dt>NAMES
							</dt>
							<dd><apiname>char</apiname> and <apiname>byte</apiname> arrays which match a class or field name which is to be obfuscated get changed to the
							obfuscated name.
							An attempt is also made to obfuscate class names in <apiname>char</apiname> and <apiname>byte</apiname> arrays which are a Java method
							or type signature.
							This helps hide the true class and field names when obfuscation of class and field names is selected by the <parmname>map</parmname>
							option, as sometimes class and field names are held in strings referenced by the <apiname>Class</apiname> object.
							It is only approximate, as class and field names which are just part of a <apiname>char</apiname> or <apiname>byte</apiname> array
							will not be changed.
							All other field and array values are unchanged.
							</dd>
						</dlentry>
						<dlentry>
							<dt>BASIC
							</dt>
							<dd>
								<apiname>char</apiname>
								arrays,
								<apiname>byte</apiname>
								arrays,
								<apiname>int</apiname>
								arrays,
								<apiname>char</apiname>
								fields and
								<apiname>byte</apiname>
								fields are redacted.
								This removes some sensitive data, such as passwords and the majority
								of
								<apiname>BigInteger</apiname>
								object contents,
								which might hold private keys.
								It leaves other data such as
								<apiname>int</apiname>
								fields, and
								<apiname>boolean</apiname>
								,
								<apiname>long</apiname>
								,
								<apiname>float</apiname>
								,
								<apiname>double</apiname>
								fields and arrays.
								which might also contain sensitive information such as personal ID
								numbers or financial
								information. Those fields might be useful however for solving some sorts of
								problems.
							</dd>
						</dlentry>
						<dlentry>
							<dt>FULL
							</dt>
							<dd>All fields and arrays are set to zero or false values, so removing
								many examples of sensitive data.
								Object reference fields and arrays are preserved, together with array
								sizes, as these
								are necessary to identify causes of out of memory errors. There is
								a chance that numbers of,
								sizes, and links between objects might hold sensitive information.
							</dd>
						</dlentry>
					</dl>
					<hazardstatement type="notice">
						<messagepanel>
							<typeofhazard>
								Information disclosure
							</typeofhazard>
							<consequence>
								Incorrect use of these options may leave sensitive data in the new dump.
								If this dump is then given to an unauthorised person the
								sensitive data may
								be extracted and disclosed.
							</consequence>
							<howtoavoid>
								Review the correct use of these options.
							</howtoavoid>
							<howtoavoid>
								Examine the newly generated HPROF file, for example with Memory
								Analyzer, to
								confirm that no sensitive data is visible.
							</howtoavoid>
						</messagepanel>
						<hazardsymbol href="../mimes/message_warning.png" />
					</hazardstatement>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Class names, field names and method names can hold sensitive
						information about the
						nature of the application. The <parmname>map</parmname> option allows the names to be
						mapped to obfuscated names,
						hiding the true nature of the application when the new dump is inspected.
						Consider using at least <cmdname>redact=NAMES</cmdname> or 
						<cmdname>redact=BASIC</cmdname> option as well to hide class, field and method names held in
						<apiname>byte</apiname> and <apiname>char</apiname> arrays.
					</p>
					<p>
						The
						<parmname>map</parmname>
						option gives a file into which will be stored
						the mapping from original class name to new class name.
						This allows the results of analysis of the new HPROF file to be
						manually converted back
						to class names of the original file.
						Any existing mappings in the file are read at the start and are used, 
						and the full list of old and any new mappings are output at the end.
						Also if several related
						snapshots are to be exported
						then the same mapping file should be used so that all the new HPROF
						files have the same new class names for the same old class names.
						If this option is omitted, no obfuscation will be done.
					</p>
					<p>
						It is normally better to retain the names of
						Java API classes, or at least those of the '<apiname>java.lang.</apiname>' package, as all
						applications use them,
						and having the true names available makes the analysis of the new
						HPROF file a little easier.
						The
						<parmname>skip</parmname>
						option allows this to be controlled.
					</p>
					<p>
						The
						<parmname>exclude</parmname>
						option allows certain phrases or words to be excluded from the
						generated names.
						This might be useful if the generated names might otherwise include
						unpronouncable or unsuitable characer
						sequences.
					</p>
					<p>
						The
						<parmname>undo</parmname>
						option allows the mapping operation to be reversed if 
						the original snapshot file has been lost and only the
						mapped HPROF file and the mapping file are available.
					</p>
					<hazardstatement type="notice">
						<messagepanel>
							<typeofhazard>
								Information disclosure
							</typeofhazard>
							<consequence>
								Incorrect use of these options may leave sensitive information about the
								application design in the new dump.
								If this dump is then given to an unauthorised person, sensitive
								information about the application may
								be extracted and disclosed.
							</consequence>
							<howtoavoid>
								Review the correct use of these options.
							</howtoavoid>
							<howtoavoid>
								Examine the newly generated HPROF file, for example with Memory
								Analyzer, to
								confirm that no sensitive data is visible.
							</howtoavoid>
							<howtoavoid>
								Do not pass the mapping file to an unauthorised person as it contains
								the true names of classes, fields and methods of the application.
							</howtoavoid>
						</messagepanel>
						<hazardsymbol href="../mimes/message_warning.png" />
					</hazardstatement>
					<hazardstatement type="notice">
						<messagepanel>
							<typeofhazard>
								Offensive content
							</typeofhazard>
							<consequence>
								As the class, method and field names are randomly generated there is the
								possibility of offensive words occuring in the names.
							</consequence>
							<howtoavoid>
								Use the <parmname>avoid</parmname> option to filter out words.
							</howtoavoid>
							<howtoavoid>
								Examine the generated mapping file to confirm that no offensive words
								have been generated. If they have, delete the mapping file and
								export the dump again. 
							</howtoavoid>
						</messagepanel>
						<hazardsymbol href="../mimes/message_warning.png" />
					</hazardstatement>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						Normally the whole snapshot is exported. Sometimes it might be
						useful to export
						a subset of all the objects. For example if the original dump was
						parsed with the
						<parmname>keep unreachable objects</parmname>
						option the unreachable objects will be retained by some created
						dummy
						<xref href="../concepts/gcroots.dita"><parmname>UNREACHABLE</parmname></xref>
						roots. It might be desired to create a new smaller HPROF file without
						these objects. 
					</p>
					<p>
						To create a HPROF file without the unreachable objects, either
						reparse without the
						<xref href="configure_mat.dita"><parmname>keep unreachable objects</parmname></xref>
						option then export the entire snapshot, or else run the
						<cmdname>GC Roots</cmdname>
						query, then
						select all roots except the
						<parmname>UNREACHABLE</parmname>
						roots, find the retained set of those other
						roots, then select all the objects and use the context menu to export
						the snapshot for the selected objects.
					</p>
					<p>
						Use this option with care - a dump exported without many objects
						such as classes, or class loaders,
						or objects from the
						'<apiname>java.lang.</apiname>'
						package may have broken links and be hard to
						interpret.
					</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
		</context>
	</taskbody>
</task>